---
slug: week04
title: Week 04 Material
authors: richards
tags: [week, work, material]
---

This week brings us another university snow cancellation. I have decided to cancel class on Tuesday, Feb 28. This will require us to make some adjustments to the schedule. These changes will be available on the [schedule](pathname:///docs/information/schedule) page as soon as they are finalized. These changes will include an adjustment to the lecture dates.

## Week 04 Material

This week we will be covering the following topics:

- ~~Tuesday 2/28 - [Lecture 07: Multi-Level Feedback Queue](pathname:///docs/lectures/mlfq)~~ *Cancelled due to snow*
- ~~Thursday 3/02 - [Lecture 08: Introduction to Concurrency](pathname:///docs/lectures/intro-conc)~~ *Moved to Tuesday 3/07*
- Thursday 3/02 - [Lecture 07: Multi-Level Feedback Queue](pathname:///docs/lectures/mlfq) *This lecture will be delivered by teaching assistant Dave Dirnfeld*. Dave will be getting some practice with teaching a class, so make sure you show him some love!

You will find the associated reading by following the links above. Make sure to read the book to learn the details regarding the topics above.

Tasks you need to complete:

- Read the chapters in the book associated with the lectures above.
- Review the lecture slides.
- Watch the lecture videos if you need to review what was covered in class.
- Complete the associated *Knowledge Boost* (quiz in Moodle language) for this week. Remember, you can complete the Knowledge Boost as many times as you want, but only your highest score will be recorded. The due date for the Knowledge Boost is indicated in Moodle as well as the [schedule](pathname:///docs/information/schedule/#knowledge-boosts).

:::info

All project assignment due dates have been changed to be due on Tuesday rather than Friday. This is to give you more opportunity to visit office hours and get help with your project. Please make sure you update your calendar with the new due dates.

:::

:::tip

Make sure you update your calendar with the due dates for any assignments posted in the [schedule](pathname:///docs/information/schedule). You are responsible for managing your own schedule and meeting all deadlines. Please read the [course policies](pathname:///docs/information/syllabus/#assignment-submission) for more information on how late assignments will be handled.

:::
