---
slug: kb3
title: Knowledge Boost 3 Release
authors: richards
tags: [kboost]
---

Knowledge Boost 3 is now available on Moodle! This Knowledge Boost will focus on the material from last week. This includes the following topics and their associated readings:

- [Tu 2/21 - L05 Limited Direct Execution](pathname:///docs/lectures/limited-direct)
- [Th 2/23 - L06 Introduction to CPU Scheduling](pathname:///docs/lectures/intro-sched)

However, it is certainly possible that you will see questions on material from previous weeks as well.

## Ultimate Guide to Completing a Knowledge Boost

Welcome to the ultimate guide on how to complete a knowledge boost (KB) in this class! This KB is multiple choice and true/false, open book, open notes, and can be taken as many times as you want until the due date. So, grab your coffee, and let's dive right in!

First things first, make sure you have all the necessary materials. You don't want to be halfway through the KB and realize that you left your notes in your other pants. Or worse, you left your computer charger at home, and now you're playing a race against time. So, take a deep breath, double-check everything, and make sure you have all your materials with you.

Now that you're all set, let's get started! Read each question carefully, and then read it again. Then, read it one more time, just to be sure. Sometimes, the wording of a question can trip you up, and you don't want to accidentally select the wrong answer. Trust me; it's not a good feeling.

Next up, let's talk about the multiple-choice questions. These can be tricky, but don't worry, I've got a trick up my sleeve. First, read the question and then try to answer it in your head before looking at the choices. This can help you eliminate obviously wrong answers right off the bat. Then, take a closer look at each option and choose the one that makes the most sense. And if all else fails, just choose "C." It's like the universal answer. 🤣

Now, let's talk about the true/false questions. These can be deceptively easy, but don't let that fool you. Remember, one word can change the entire meaning of a sentence. So, read each statement carefully and then decide whether it's true or false. And don't forget to double-check your work before submitting the KB.

Finally, remember that a KB is open book and open notes, which means you have all the information you need right at your fingertips. Take advantage of that! But don't rely too heavily on your notes. Make sure you understand the concepts and can apply them to the questions. After all, all KBs are designed to test your knowledge, not your ability to copy and paste from your notes.

So, there you have it, folks! Follow these tips, and you'll ace that operating systems KB in no time. And remember, if at first, you don't succeed, try, try again. You can take the KB as many times as you want, so don't give up! Unless you're on your 20th attempt, in which case, maybe it's time to take a break and go outside for a bit. Good luck!
